---
title: Questions for Journal Editors on LLM Copyediting Software
date: 2024-03-24
abstract: |
  **STAGE**: Draft

  **DOCUMENT TYPE**: Discussion Document

  LLM copyediting software can incorporate features that assist authors
in being more transparent with
  journals regarding their use of an LLM in manuscript preparation.
  The development and documentation of these features can be more beneficial if guided
  by the questions posed to journal editors in this discussion document.
---

Background
----------

The questions in this discussion document pertain to three types of disclosure facilitated by a specific
manuscript writing approach. This approach involves writing a manuscript

* with source text files, such as LaTeX or Markdown,
* saving them with source version control, such as [Git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git), and
* enhancing the text with LLM copyediting software,
  such as Manubot AI Editor [@Pividori2023.01.21.525030],
  and its spin-off <https://CopyAid.it>.

LLM copyediting software processes chunks of text from an existing manuscript
along with predefined instructions like "Revise the text received" and submits them
to an LLM. The LLM's response is then a new, revised chunk of text
for the manuscript.


First Type Of Disclosure
------------------------

The first type of disclosure aligns with
[the current requirements from GSA journals for authors](https://academic.oup.com/genetics/pages/general-instructions):
"full technical specifications of the LLM used (name, version, model, source) and the method
of application (query structure, syntax)" [4].

CopyAid generates files that could be termed "method specification files", following the
language of the GSA guideline.
Here is an example of such a file produced by CopyAid when an author selects the "proofread"
instruction:

[proofread.toml](https://gitlab.com/castedo/copyaid/-/raw/68647e9c9439159259e6a282ccd0de5c15aea944/copyaid/config/proofread.toml)

Authors can select other CopyAid instructions like "heavy" which result in a slightly
different "method specification file":

[heavy.toml](https://gitlab.com/castedo/copyaid/-/raw/68647e9c9439159259e6a282ccd0de5c15aea944/copyaid/config/heavy.toml)


Second Type Of Disclosure
-------------------------

The second type of disclosure is the complete history of all edits made by the human authors. These edits
are recorded as "commits" in Git terminology. An example is the history of hundreds of
commits for the publication doi:10.1098/rsif.2017.0387 [@doi:10.1098/rsif.2017.0387]:

<https://github.com/greenelab/deep-review/commits/master/>

An example of an individual commit (saved edit) is:

<https://github.com/greenelab/deep-review/commit/081fb466dd13c2813b3ae14bb916173f5d0442c5?diff=split>

The second type of disclosure offers transparency regarding edits that are clearly
made by humans and not indiscriminately generated by an LLM.

These histories can be easily and automatically archived in the Software Heritage
Archive with archival timestamps beyond the authors' control:

<https://archive.softwareheritage.org/browse/origin/visits/?origin_url=https://github.com/greenelab/deep-review>


Third Type Of Disclosure
------------------------

The third type of disclosure is similar to the second type but for LLM-suggested edits,
not changes saved by a human. 
This functionality is showcased by Manubot AI Editor. Example edits are illustrated in these four
diagrams from the paper about Manubot AI Editor:

* <https://greenelab.github.io/manubot-gpt-manuscript/#fig:intro:ccc>

* <https://greenelab.github.io/manubot-gpt-manuscript/#fig:discussion:ccc>

* <https://greenelab.github.io/manubot-gpt-manuscript/#fig:methods:phenoplier>

* <https://greenelab.github.io/manubot-gpt-manuscript/#fig:methods:manubotai>

Similar to human edits recorded as Git commits, LLM-generated edits can also be documented
as Git commits.


Main Questions
--------------

Given that the GSA already requires a "method specification file", we
presume journal editors would appreciate LLM copyediting software that simplifies the process for authors
to submit these files.

Popular Git services, like GitHub, and the Software Heritage Archive already offer
pages that list and link to the human edits.

For a specific "method specification file", the third type of disclosure could involve edits suggested by the LLM on actual
previous drafts of the manuscript or edits suggested on a canonical, frequently
used example, such as a classic genetics paper.

Q1) Which would be of greater utility to journal editors, seeing the kinds of edits
suggested on a canonical classic example for the "method specification files" used,
or the actual edits suggested on past drafts?

Q2) If you believe actual suggested edits on past drafts are more useful than suggested
edits on a canonical classic example,
the third type of disclosure could be a short list or an exhaustive list of LLM
suggested edits. Human authors do not incorporate all edits suggested by an
LLM. A short list would consist of tens of selected paragraph revisions,
while an exhaustive list would include almost all LLM suggested edits,
even if they are not used by a human author.
Would you prefer a short list or an exhaustive list?

Q3) How valuable do journal editors find the third type of
disclosure, given that the first and second types of disclosures are already available?


Terminology Questions
---------------------

Q4) The GSA journals refer to "language editing" as a recommended pre-submission
activity. Do you think "LLM language editing" more accurately describes the function performed by the software referenced in these questions, as opposed to "LLM
copyediting"?

Q5) Is there a better term than "method specification file" that you think
would be more understandable for the file described in the first type of disclosure?

Q6) Can you suggest any names for a file that 
lists and links to the edits of the SECOND type of disclosure (saved edits by a human)?

Q7) Can you suggest any names for a file that lists and links to the THIRD type
of disclosure (suggested edits by an LLM copyediting software)?
